+++
Title = "Understanding and Executing on API Developer Experience"
Type = "talk"
Speakers = ["keshav-vasudevan"]
+++

APIs acts as a bridge of communication between various software applications,
working as a channel for exchange of information between different logical
units. APIs enable products to become platforms, allowing internal and external
developers to build additional functionality and utility over existing pieces of
code. In this way, APIs enable products to take on a new type of consumer – the
third party developer. Developer Experience (DX) is an extension of general User
Experience, which emphasizes the developer, and their experiences working with
the API. A good API Developer Experience goes beyond technical writing. It is
about providing all the right resources that help your end consumers
successfully integrate and work with your API.

An API with good Developer Experience has design and documentation at the center
of it.  API design and documentation is aimed at crafting an optimal experience,
and providing the right information for developers to successfully consume and
integrate with you API. This information could be in the form of technical
writing, code samples and examples for better understanding how to consume an
API. The OpenAPI Specification (OAS) is the industry standard for API design
allowing developers and teams to design, document, visualize and consume RESTful
web services. The OpenAPI Specification (formerly known as the Swagger Spec) is
fully open sourced, and is standardized as part of the OpenAPI Initiative (OAI).

I will be speaking about what it means to have an API with good DX by
understanding the types of API consumers,  their journey from API discovery to
integration, and what’s required to optimize the experience in each of these
phases. In the process, I will detail how the OpenAPI  Specification helps in
improving general API DX, and outline some best practices in design and
documentation.
